In this lecture we will learn about how we can use grids and positioning and CSSA with regards to responsive
web design.
One common task when designing a web page is to divide the content up into columns.
The first step when writing responsive web code is to add the following META element to the head of
our HVM code.
In this line the content defines that the width of the web page should be controlled by the width of
the device.
The initial scale defines the default zoom value that the page didn't start at.
In this case a value of 1.0 tells the browser to started Izumo of 100 percent to build a responsive
CSSA grid.
The first step is to use the asterisk selector to apply the box sizing property to all elements on the
web page and give it a value of border box.
Then we can define column classes that will define the width of an element based on percentage.
Let's say we want to divide all web page up into five columns the full width of the web pages 100 percent.
So if we divide 100 by 5 This means that our columns will increment by a value of 20 each of all column
classes will follow the naming convention Col hyphen and then the column number.
We will also give each of these columns a float value of less than a padding of 10 pixels.
The last step would be to wrap NEHTA HVM elements we wanted to group together in a column in a div and
then assign that div a class value of one of the columns F the width of the columns adds up to 100 percent
or less sequential elements in our code with column classes applied to them will appear side by side
on a webpage if they add up to over 100 percent.
The first element will appear above the other elements on our webpage for this example let's create
two divs.
Our first div we will give a class of call 1 and a background color of blue.
Our second div we will give a class of color for in a background color of orange based on the color
classes we defined.
Kala one gives or give with 20 percent and call for gives our DiVall with of 80 percent.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our blue div takes up one fifth of our Web
page and our orange juice takes up four fifths of our web page in the next lecture we will learn about
blend modes and see SS.